content/post/hugo-is-for-lovers.md, before:

+++
title = "Hugo is for lovers"
date = "2015-08-03T13:39:46+02:00"
toc = true
comments = true
+++

## Step 1. Install Hugo

Goto [hugo releases](https://github.com/spf13/hugo/releases) and download the
appropriate version for your os and architecture.

Save it somewhere specific as we will be using it in the next step.

More complete instructions are available at [installing hugo](/overview/installing/)

## Step 2. Build the Docs

Hugo has its own example site which happens to also be the documentation site
you are reading right now.

Follow the following steps:

 1. Clone the [hugo repository](http://github.com/spf13/hugo)
 2. Go into the repo
 3. Run hugo in server mode and build the docs
 4. Open your browser to http://localhost:1313

Corresponding pseudo commands:

    git clone https://github.com/spf13/hugo
    cd hugo
    /path/to/where/you/installed/hugo server --source=./docs
    > 29 pages created
    > 0 tags index created
    > in 27 ms
    > Web Server is available at http://localhost:1313
    > Press ctrl+c to stop

Once you've gotten here, follow along the rest of this page on your local build.

## Step 3. Change the docs site

Stop the Hugo process by hitting ctrl+c.

Now we are going to run hugo again, but this time with hugo in watch mode.

    /path/to/hugo/from/step/1/hugo server --source=./docs --watch
    > 29 pages created
    > 0 tags index created
    > in 27 ms
    > Web Server is available at http://localhost:1313
    > Watching for changes in /Users/spf13/Code/hugo/docs/content
    > Press ctrl+c to stop


Open your [favorite editor](http://vim.spf13.com) and change one of the source
content pages. How about changing this very file to *fix the typo*. How about changing this very file to *fix the typo*.

Content files are found in `docs/content/`. Unless otherwise specified, files
are located at the same relative location as the url, in our case
`docs/content/overview/quickstart.md`.

Change and save this file.. Notice what happened in your terminal.

    > Change detected, rebuilding site

    > 29 pages created
    > 0 tags index created
    > in 26 ms

Refresh the browser and observe that the typo is now fixed.

Notice how quick that was. Try to refresh the site before it's finished building.. I double dare you.
Having nearly instant feedback enables you to have your creativity flow without waiting for long builds.

## Step 4. Have fun

The best way to learn something is to play with it.

Commit message:

Add categories, tags, reading time and update about page

content/post/hugo-is-for-lovers.md, after:

+++
title = "Getting Started with Hugo"
date = "2017-12-07"
description = "Hugo is one of the most popular open-source static site generators. With its amazing speed and flexibility, Hugo makes building websites fun again."
categories = ["web development"]
tags = ["hugo"]
toc = true
comments = true
draft = false
+++

## Step 1. Install Hugo

Goto [hugo releases](https://github.com/gohugoio/hugo/releases) and download the
appropriate version for your os and architecture.

Save it somewhere specific as we will be using it in the next step.

More complete instructions are available at [installing hugo](https://gohugo.io/getting-started/installing/)

## Step 2. Build the Docs

Hugo has its own example site which happens to also be the documentation site
you are reading right now.

Follow the following steps:

 1. Clone the [hugo repository](http://github.com/gohugoio/hugo)
 1. Go into the repo
 1. Run hugo in server mode and build the docs
 1. Open your browser to http://localhost:1313

Corresponding pseudo commands:

    git clone https://github.com/gohugoio/hugo
    cd hugo
    /path/to/where/you/installed/hugo server --source=./docs
    > 29 pages created
    > 0 tags index created
    > in 27 ms
    > Web Server is available at http://localhost:1313
    > Press ctrl+c to stop

Once you've gotten here, follow along the rest of this page on your local build.

## Step 3. Change the docs site

Stop the Hugo process by hitting ctrl+c.

Now we are going to run hugo again, but this time with hugo in watch mode.

    /path/to/hugo/from/step/1/hugo server --source=./docs --watch
    > 29 pages created
    > 0 tags index created
    > in 27 ms
    > Web Server is available at http://localhost:1313
    > Watching for changes in /Users/spf13/Code/hugo/docs/content
    > Press ctrl+c to stop

Open your [favorite editor](http://vim.spf13.com) and change one of the source
content pages. How about changing this very file to *fix the typo*. How about changing this very file to *fix the typo*.

Content files are found in `docs/content/`. Unless otherwise specified, files
are located at the same relative location as the url, in our case
`docs/content/overview/quickstart.md`.

Change and save this file.. Notice what happened in your terminal.

    > Change detected, rebuilding site

    > 29 pages created
    > 0 tags index created
    > in 26 ms

Refresh the browser and observe that the typo is now fixed.

Notice how quick that was. Try to refresh the site before it's finished building... I double dare you.
Having nearly instant feedback enables you to have your creativity flow without waiting for long builds.

## Step 4. Have fun

The best way to learn something is to play with it.
